1. Module 6 Overview
The goal of the sixth module is to dive deeper into API Security and explore OAuth 2 primarily, but also a custom token security mechanism.


2. Goals
Learn about OAuth2 and get a solid understanding on how it works.


3. Lesson Notes
What is OAuth?
Simply put, OAuth2 is a standard for authorization, more specifically, delegated authorization.

A high level goal of OAuth is allowing a Resource Owner to give access to a third party in a limited way, without giving away the master key (the password). 

The Roles / Actors in OAuth
The Resource Owner (the user) is capable of granting access to a Resource.

The Resource Server (the API) is the host of the protected Resources.

The Authorization Server is capable of issuing Access Tokens to the Client. 
The Client (the front end app) is capable of making requests on behalf of the Resource Owner.

Confidential and Public Clients
Confidential Clients are capable of maintaining the confidentiality of their credentials. For example - a server side client running on a secure server.

Public Clients on the other hand cannot guarantee they're going to be able to maintain the confidentiality of their credentials. For example - a native Android application, or an AngularJS client. 

A Simple High Level Flow
- The Client asks for access from the Resource Owner - which grants it

- The Client talks to the Authorization Server

- The Auth Server gives the Client a key

- With the Key, the Client talks to the Resource Server and can access the Resource

Trust Zones
The Resource Server and the Authorization Server belong to a trust zone. The Authorization Server knows the what Resources to be protected are. And the Resource Server knows how to validate the tokens coming out of the Auth Server. 
Then, obviously the Resource Owner and the Resource Server have a trust relationship with each other. 
The Client doesn’t (necessarily) belong to any trust zone. 

4. Resources
- About OAuth2 - http://oauth.net/2/
- An Introduction to OAuth 2 - https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-oauth-2
- The Module 6 Branch of the project on Github - https://github.com/eugenp/REST-With-Spring/tree/module6