1. Goal
This is a quick and practical lesson, showing you how to manually run an API in a cluster, on EC2. 

2. Lesson Notes
2.1. Preparation and EC2

We’re going to start with a single instance on EC2 - running the API - already set up.

This is a bare-bones instance that only has the JDK and Maven installed - that’s enough to run the API - which is everything we need. 
With this instance running, we're going to do a quick live test and hit the API through the elastic IP, and using our standard credentials: admin@fake.com / adminpass.

We also have an image created from this instance, so we can run multiple instances of it without having to re-create everything from scratch.

Let’s now create a second instance here. 
OK, so at this point we have 2 instances of the API that are running.

We're going to hit them independently and make sure they are actually fully operational. 

2.2. The Load Balancer
Now let’s start setting them up in a cluster, with a load balancer running in front of them.

We’re going to create an Elastic Load Balancer in EC2.

The first decision is - should the routing be decided at the transport layer, or application layer. And, given we’re running a REST API here, we’re going to naturally chose the HTTP layer. 

We're going to set configure the port (8082) and the availability zones where the balancer is going to operate. 
Next, we’re going to set up a health check. And because this is a Boot application, we can simply use the /health endpoint.


Finally, we're going to register the actual instances into the load balancer.

And we’re done.


2.3. Hitting the Load Balancer
We’re going to wait a few seconds for the instances to be checked and considered healthy.

Once we're good to go, we can now simply pick up the DNS of our load balancer from the EC2 interface, and - instead of hitting the individual instances directly - hit the load balancer instead. 
And - as we expect - the request will get routed to one of the instances. 


2.4. Stateless / Stateful REST API

The stateless of our API has a huge implication at this point - we can now trivially scale out the API to a number of nodes sitting behind a load balancer, without worrying about all the problems that would come with a stateful implementation.

Of course if we do have a stateful system, there's an interesting feature of the target group that the load balancer uses is sticky sessions (a custom implementation).

So, if we don’t have statelessness, we could potentially use this to make sure sessions are sticky and hit the same instance for the duration of the session.