1. Goal
The simple goal of this lesson is to introduce the new User Management application - that we're going to be building out throughout this entire course.


3. Lesson Notes
The Modules of the Project
Now that we understand how to roll out a simple, single module project with Spring, we're going move to a multi-module project.

The new project has 2 sub-modules:

common
um-webapp
The common module simply contains abstract classes, utilities and other infrastructure related logic that is generic and not part of the domain model.

The um-webapp module contains everything else that is specific to the domain model of the application.

If you haven't worked with a multi-module project, spend some time building it from the parent, or just building each module. This is a good way to learn what a Maven project looks like beyond just a single module. 

Persistence Setup
By default, the project uses the H2 in-memory DB and - persistence-h2.properties.

If you want to switch to - for example - MySQL - you'll need to specify a different property on startup:

persistenceTarget=mysql
If you are going to use MySQL, you'll of course need to run a MySQL instance locally and you'll need to either change the default credentials here, or create the following user/password in your local installation:

jdbc.username=restUser
jdbc.password=restmy5ql

The Domain Model
This project we're going to be using throughout the module has a simple domain model: Users, Roles and Privileges: 
User *->* Role *->* Privilege


Existing Data in the System
When the system starts up, a simple setup runs creating some default Privileges, Roles and Users that will immediately be ready to use.

You can go through that simple process in SecuritySetup.


The Layers of the Application
The project uses a standard tiered architecture with the following layers:

The Persistence layer
The Service layer
The Web / API layer
Note that the layers have their own individual packages and any layer can be fully bootstrapped into a working Spring context without the layer above it.


The web.xml 
We're going to start with a web.xml file and we're quickly going to phase that out to a preferred Java-only Servlet config. 
The web.xml has the following, standard structure:

the /api Servlet
the Filter
the child-parent context relation

Maven
The parent pom defines the versions of all dependencies and some default plugins and plugin configuration.

The submodules inherit this config and define their own specific pom config in addition to it.

Note how tests are configured to run - by default, only unit tests run; integration and live tests run in their own profiles and are skipped in the standard build.


Interfaces
The codebase is making use of interfaces to allow us to write more generic functionality.

Here are a few of the interesting ones: 
IDto, INameableDto - should be implemented by all DTOs in the application
IEntity, INameableEntity - should be implemented by all the entities in the application
IRawService, IService - should be implemented by all services in the system
ISortingController - should be implemented by all controllers that support sorting
IOperations - common set of operations, used by the service layer now (but it could potentially be used in other layers as well)
IWithName, IWithId - used by both entities and DTOs to keep things simple and not repeat the definitions
The main difference between these sets of interfaces is - the first one in the set is simple and only supports id while the second one also supports name. 

3. Resources
- The REST With Spring project on Github - https://github.com/eugenp/REST-With-Spring